README.md, before:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

# Ultimate DevOps library

This library contains a list of tools & methodoologies accompanied with resources. The aim of this is to provide a learning guide through curated resources. This repository covers Dev

## How to contribute

We welcome contributions from the community. Please do follow these rules when making a pull request:

- Write a clear description of the PR (your recommendation, why?)
- Keep the PR simple
- Add references and links
- Adhere to the style of the library

# Table of Contents

- [What is DevOps?]()
- [Tooling & Software]()
- [Best practices]()
- [Useful resources & materials]()
- [Learning Projects]()
- [FAQ]()


## What is DevOps

- DEFINITION

## Tooling & Software



### Operating Systems (OS)

- 

### Version control

| Cloud | Link | Description | ??? |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| **Git** | [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) | AWS labs tool preventing you from committing secrets to a git repository  | Test |


-
### Cloud - AWS, Azure, GCP

| Cloud | Link | Description | ??? |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| **AWS** | [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) | AWS labs tool preventing you from committing secrets to a git repository  | Test |

### Programming & Scripting

| Language | Link | Description | ??? |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| **AWS** | [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) | AWS labs tool preventing you from committing secrets to a git repository  | Test |

### Infrastructure as Code

- 

### Containers & Container Orchestration

-
### Configuration Management

- 
### Continuous Integration & Continuous Deployment

- 

### Monitoring & Observability

- 
### GitOps

- 


## Useful resources and materials

### Certifications


#### Note: These are just our personal recommendations of certifications that are currently in demand. They are not in order! Also note that these certifications alone do not guarantee your success in getting a role - they merely open doors for you and allow you to validate current/existing knowledge

| Certificate  | Why? | Difficulty | Learning resources & links |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner | New to the Cloud? Definitely recommend this one!! (AWS are currently the largest cloud-provider) | Easy | [AWS CCP course by Andrew Brown - FreeCodeCamp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hLmDS179YE) |
| Azure Fundamentals (AZ900) | Starting with Cloud and already work with on-prem tools like Azure AD and the likes, then this is for you!  | Easy | [Azure Fundamentals (AZ900) course by Andrew Brown - FreeCodeCamp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NKEFWyqJ5XA) |
| Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) | If you work with Kubernetes daily, this is a must! | Medium/Hard | [CKA course by Mumshad](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-administrator-with-practice-tests/) |
| Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD)  | If you work with Kubernetes daily and have done the CKA, go for this one! | Medium | [CKAD course by Mumshad](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-application-developer/) |
| AWS Solutions Architect Associate  | Completed your AWS CCP or you want a nice challenge - then this one is for you! | Medium | [AWS SAA course by Stéphane Maarek](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-saa-c02/) |
| Azure Admin (104)  | Completed the AZ900 or you want a good foundation in Azure, then this one is for you ! | Medium | [Azure Admin 104 course by Scott Duffy](https://www.udemy.com/course/70533-azure/) |
| HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate  | Gives you an insight into the world of Infrastructure as Code | Easy/Medium | [HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate](https://www.udemy.com/course/terraform-beginner-to-advanced/) |
| Google Cloud Associate Cloud Engineer  | Looking to diversify your cloud knowledge? Or your employer uses GCP daily? Then this is for you! | Medium | [Google Cloud Associate Cloud Engineer by Antoni Tzavelas](https://training.antonit.com/p/google-cloud-associate-cloud-engineer) |
| AWS Developer Associate | Are you a developer who wants a touch of cloud? Then this for you! | Medium | [AWS Developer Associate by Stéphane Maarek](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-developer-associate-dva-c01/) |
| Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) | If you work with Kubernetes daily on production, deal with a lot of security aspects and you're a Kubernetes fanatic, then this is for you! | Hard | [CKS course by Kim Wüstkamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) |
| AWS Solutions Architect Professional | Got some hands-on experience under your belt and you're ready to tackle the beast? Then give this one a shot! | Hard | [AWS Certified Solutions Architect Professional by Stéphane Maarek](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-solutions-architect-professional/) |

####  Adding to the list? Follow the template below when making a pull-request.

| Certificate name | Why you recommend it? | Difficulty level | [Course name](Course link here) |

### Resources


### Blogs & Articles 

- 

### Other useful repos

- 
## Learning Projects

Commit message:

add resource from medium article

README.md, after:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

# Ultimate DevOps library

This library contains a list of tools & methodoologies accompanied with resources. The aim of this is to provide a learning guide through curated resources. This repository covers Dev

## How to contribute

We welcome contributions from the community. Please do follow these rules when making a pull request:

- Write a clear description of the PR (your recommendation, why?)
- Keep the PR simple
- Add references and links
- Adhere to the style of the library

# Table of Contents

- [What is DevOps?]()
- [A Pathway To DevOps]()
- [Tooling & Software]()
- [Best practices in DevOps]()
- [Useful resources & materials]()
- [Learning Projects]()
- [FAQ]()


## What is DevOps

- DEFINITION


## A Pathway to DevOps

To begin with, the 4 fundamentals I recommend to anyone looking to start learning are: (Links to course are provided towards the end of this article)
- The fundamentals of Linux and being able to navigate the linux CLI (command line interface ).Yep, this is where a lot of the magic happens; you may have come across Command prompt CMD/Powershell for windows users and the Terminal for mac users. Just like Windows and MacOS, Linux is also an operating system — In fact, one of the most popular on the planet. Android is powered by the Linux OS. A lot of the DevOps tools that you will come across like Docker and Kubernetes, require you to have a grounding in Linux.
- Git (version control) — this is important as you will learn how to keep track of your code and allow others to make changes
- Python — as much as you may dislike coding, you will need to learn the fundamentals. Python can get so deep but as a DevOps/Platform Engineer, the fundamentals, automation and being able to read the code of others will suffice for the beginning. Python is also one of the easiest programming languages to pick up.
- Learn 1 cloud technology — it is easy to get carried away and jump between learning cloud providers, but the best option is to learn one cloud provider and learn it WELL!. For someone completely new to IT, I recommend you to start with Amazon Web Services (AWS). For others who have worked in IT before as a 1st/2nd/3rd line Engineer, Helpdesk Support Engineer or General Engineer who is familiar with the Microsoft suite (Active directory and the likes), I would say to begin with Microsoft Azure.

## Tooling & Software



### Operating Systems (OS)

What is OS?

- OS is...

|  OS  | Descrption  | Why  | Learning Resources |  
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
|  Test  | 2  | 3  |   |
|  Test  | 2  | 3  |   |  |

### Version control

| Cloud | Link | Description | ??? |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| **Git** | [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) | AWS labs tool preventing you from committing secrets to a git repository  | Test |


-
### Cloud - AWS, Azure, GCP

| Cloud | Link | Description | ??? |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| **AWS** | [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) | AWS labs tool preventing you from committing secrets to a git repository  | Test |

### Programming & Scripting

| Language | Link | Description | ??? |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| **AWS** | [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) | AWS labs tool preventing you from committing secrets to a git repository  | Test |

### Infrastructure as Code

- 

### Containers & Container Orchestration

-
### Configuration Management

- 
### Continuous Integration & Continuous Deployment

- 

### Monitoring & Observability

- 
### GitOps

- 


## Useful resources and materials

### Certifications


#### Note: These are just our personal recommendations of certifications that are currently in demand. They are not in order! Also note that these certifications alone do not guarantee your success in getting a role - they merely open doors for you and allow you to validate current/existing knowledge

| Certificate  | Why? | Difficulty | Learning resources & links |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner | New to the Cloud? Definitely recommend this one!! (AWS are currently the largest cloud-provider) | Easy | [AWS CCP course by Andrew Brown - FreeCodeCamp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hLmDS179YE) |
| Azure Fundamentals (AZ900) | Starting with Cloud and already work with on-prem tools like Azure AD and the likes, then this is for you!  | Easy | [Azure Fundamentals (AZ900) course by Andrew Brown - FreeCodeCamp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NKEFWyqJ5XA) |
| Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) | If you work with Kubernetes daily, this is a must! | Medium/Hard | [CKA course by Mumshad](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-administrator-with-practice-tests/) |
| Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD)  | If you work with Kubernetes daily and have done the CKA, go for this one! | Medium | [CKAD course by Mumshad](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-application-developer/) |
| AWS Solutions Architect Associate  | Completed your AWS CCP or you want a nice challenge - then this one is for you! | Medium | [AWS SAA course by Stéphane Maarek](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-saa-c02/) |
| Azure Admin (104)  | Completed the AZ900 or you want a good foundation in Azure, then this one is for you ! | Medium | [Azure Admin 104 course by Scott Duffy](https://www.udemy.com/course/70533-azure/) |
| HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate  | Gives you an insight into the world of Infrastructure as Code | Easy/Medium | [HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate](https://www.udemy.com/course/terraform-beginner-to-advanced/) |
| Google Cloud Associate Cloud Engineer  | Looking to diversify your cloud knowledge? Or your employer uses GCP daily? Then this is for you! | Medium | [Google Cloud Associate Cloud Engineer by Antoni Tzavelas](https://training.antonit.com/p/google-cloud-associate-cloud-engineer) |
| AWS Developer Associate | Are you a developer who wants a touch of cloud? Then this for you! | Medium | [AWS Developer Associate by Stéphane Maarek](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-developer-associate-dva-c01/) |
| Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) | If you work with Kubernetes daily on production, deal with a lot of security aspects and you're a Kubernetes fanatic, then this is for you! | Hard | [CKS course by Kim Wüstkamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) |
| AWS Solutions Architect Professional | Got some hands-on experience under your belt and you're ready to tackle the beast? Then give this one a shot! | Hard | [AWS Certified Solutions Architect Professional by Stéphane Maarek](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-solutions-architect-professional/) |

####  Adding to the list? Follow the template below when making a pull-request.

| Certificate name | Why you recommend it? | Difficulty level | [Course name](Course link here) |

### Resources


### Blogs & Articles 

- 

### Other useful repos

- 
## Learning Projects
